.TH USNJLS 1
.SH NAME
usnjls \- List the contents of a NTFS Update Sequence Number journal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usnjls [-f
.I fstype
.B ] [-vV]  [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset] [-b dev_sector_size]
.I image [images] [inode]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usnjls
lists the records in a NTFS Update Sequence Number Journal.
If inode is given, then it will look there for a journal.
Otherwise, it will use the default location.
The output lists the USN journal records.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "-f fstype"
Specify the file system type.
Use '\-f list' to list the supported file system types. If not given, autodetection methods are used.
.IP "-i imgtype"
Identify the type of image file, such as raw or split.  Use '\-i list' to list the supported types. If not given, autodetection methods are used.
.IP "-o imgoffset"
The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.
.IP "-b dev_sector_size"
The size, in bytes, of the underlying device sectors.  If not given, the value in the image format is used (if it exists) or 512-bytes is assumed.
.IP -l
Print the output in long format describing the field values and unpacking the data into human readable strings.
.IP -m
Print the output in mactime format.
.IP -V
Display version
.IP -v
verbose output
.IP "image [images]"
One (or more if split) disk or partition images whose format is given with '\-i'.
.IP [inode]
The inode where the Update Sequence Number Journal can be found.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

usnjls \-f ntfs img.dd

.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier at sleuthkit dot org>

Send documentation updates to <doc-updates at sleuthkit dot org>
